## Leverage  

An intrinsic part of managing assets is leverage. At it's simplest, it is the ability to invest with borrowed capital in order to gain greater exposure to market movements.  

This is better explained with an example:

> We assume a very simplistic lending model with no penalty fees.

BOB has 100 ether, which he deposits into a lending protocol. He is able to borrow about 80% of his collateral value in DAI (assuming the collateral factor is 0.8). 

For simplicity's sake we assume 1 ether has a price of 1000 DAI. BOB now withdraws 80 000 DAI from the lending protocol.  

What does he do? He goes degen, and he swaps the 80k DAI for 80 ether. Then he deposits it back into the protocol. He has now deposited 180 ether into the protocol. His collateral factor (loan to asset ratio) is now well below 80%.  

He now borrows 64k DAI more, to make use of his healthy collateral factor, swaps for ether and deposits it into the protocol again. 

*Why would someone do this?*  
BOB believes the price of ether will go up. He is expressing this sentiment by taking a leveraged position. After depositing the last 64 ether, BOB has grown his initial 100 ether position to about 244 ether.  

If the ether price moves upwards, he will make a profit.  

He owes, at this point, 144k DAI (80k + 64k). He has deposited into the protocol a total of 244 ether (100 + 80 + 64), worth 244k DAI. If the price were to move up by 20%, his deposit would be worth 292.8k DAI. He can now withdraw 120 ether, swap into DAI and repay his 144k DAI debt. This leaves him with 124 ether, 24 ether more than he started with.  

> The price of ether only changed by 20% but BOB made a return of 24%. This is the power of leverage.  

The example is simply one strategy that is made possible with lending markets in finance.  

*What were to happen if the price of ether dropped?*  