## Liquidation  

A lending protocol requires BOB's liquidation collateral factor, i.e. his loan to asset ratio, to remain above a certain amount. For our example this is equal to the borrow collateral factor, i.e. 80%.  

BOB had liabilities of 144k DAI, and assets of 244 ether. At the starting price of 1000 DAI / ETH his collateral factor was 0.59. This seems like a healthy amount. 

If the price of ether dropped 30% to 700 DAI, then his collateral factor becomes 0.84, which is above the liquidation threshold. 

> At the liquidation threshold a user's assets are no longer deemed acceptable collateral for their debts.  

ALICE sees that BOB's collateral value has weakened and liquidates his position. If BOB had simply supplied 244 ether and borrowed 144k DAI, then it would mean:  
- He has 144k DAI in his wallet. 
- His 244 ether is sold off for about 170.8k DAI (244 ether @ 700 DAI). 
- BOB's account is then credited with the 170.8k DAI, meaning his debt is wiped clean and is credited with 26.8k DAI worth of ether (38.29 ether). 
- In this scenario, where BOB supplied 244 ether and borrowed 144k DAI, he ends with 38.29 ether and 144k DAI, worth a total 170.8k DAI.

Unfortunately, in our case BOB has used leverage. His initial 100 ether was used to borrow, swap into ETH and then deposit back into the protocol. This means he has 0 DAI in his wallet, and 244 ether in the lending protocol. His collateral is sold off for 170.8k DAI, which is used to wipe his debt clean. He is still credited with the 38.29 ether, meaning his total asset value is now 26.8k DAI. A loss of 73.2k DAI (remember he started with 100k DAI worth of ether). Compared to the loss of 30k DAI he would have had for simply holding ether.  

> Leverage is dangerous for this reason. Price movements, i.e. profits and losses will be magnified.  

Liquidations are crucial for a healthy lending market. It prevents lending pools from holding collateral assets that no longer cover the cost of the assets lent to other users. I.e. it prevents protocol insolvency.  

In our example, BOB still received some ether back from the protocol. Because the collateral he supplied covered the total value of his debt.  

What would happen if the price of ether suddenly fell 60%? If the protocol sold off his 244 ether it would only receive 97.6k DAI, which does not cover the 144k BOB borrowed from the protocol. The protocol has incurred bad debt, and a liquidation in this case would mean BOB receives none of his collateral back and the protocol has lost about 43k DAI of value. BOB has lost his shirt.
