## Incentives  

Protocols allow users to monitor the health of other users' positions and, if the collateral factor becomes unhealthy, the former can liquidate the latter.  

The user liquidating the unhealthy position would usually acquire the assets of the liquidated position at a discount, which they can then resell for a profit.  

This does also depend on the way the protocol decides to handle such liquidations.  

*To do: expand on different ways this is handled*

Liquidators serve the protocol by preventing bad positions from affecting the value locked in the protocol. 

Let's assume the following:  

WETH @ 1800 USD / WETH  
Liquidation threshold: 0.90

BOB has:
Supplied 1 WETH
Borrowed 1500 USDC

His collateral factor is: 0.83

Now the price of WETH decreases to 1600 USD / WETH. BOB's collateral factor is now 0.94 (borrowed / supplied).

BOB still has an outstanding loan of 1500 USDC, but if the price of WETH drops below this borrowed amount, it means that BOB has borrowed more than he has supplied; this makes the loan undercollateralized. 

> Most protocols want to avoid being undercollateralized, because the fact is that there is no incentive for BOB to pay off his original loan. He would be worse off if he chooses to pay in that scenario.  

This is where liquidators (other users) come in. At 1600 USD / WETH, BOB can be liquidated.  

The liquidator calls the appropriate function on the protocol. The protocol sells off the assets BOB has supplied: the 1 WETH he has supplied is swapped for 1600 USDC. The 1500 USDC debt is settled with these funds, and the 100 USDC balance is sent back to BOB (minus apllicable fees).  

The liquidators have thus saved the protocol from incurring bad debt. They are usually awarded with a fee from the protocol, or they are granted the option to buy the collateral at the discounted price.  