## Order books  
Markets is where buyers and sellers meet. In TradFi order books match buyers and sellers.

A simple example:  

BOB opens an order: he wants 100 asset X in exchange for 10 of his asset Y. BOB needs someone who is willing to swap their 10 asset Y in exchange for 100 asset X. 

Luckily, ALICE wants to get rid of her asset X. She fills the order for BOB's 100 X, at the price of 10 Y.  

BOB is happy, because he receives his 100 asset X. ALICE is happy, because she got rid of her asset X and gained asset Y.  

Simply put: The seller can only sell if there is someone else taking the buy side. The buyer can only purchase asset Y if there is someone else who wants to sell it at that price.  

> The current market price is the price at which the sellers and the buyers have reached equilibrium. This is not static!  

There are channels dedicated to explaining the ins and outs of order books and the accompanying trading theory. 

### Is this model outdated?  

Short answer: nope. 

Order books are used in TradFi, but are also prevalent in DeFi.  

There are some negatives:  
- Depending on the asset, orders can take some time to fill. They may also fail. 
- Matching engines may be opaque (think Dark Pools ala Flashboys from Michael Lewis)

But there are arguments to be made that for high liquidity assets order books can provide:  
- more efficiency  
- reduced risk exposure (e.g. from impermanent loss)

The promise of AMMs was that there is always a market maker, someone on the other end willing to accept your trade. Some people refer to this as "infinite liquidity", which isn't practically true. 
