## AMMs  
An automated market maker (AMM) means that a smart contract can play the role of willing buyer or willing seller in any swap transaction. This eliminates the issue of making a market (spoiler alert: it creates a different issue).  

An AMM uses an invariant to determine the current swap price for the assets in the pool.  

For example:

```
k = xy
``` 

Where: 
`x` = the reserves of token X
`y` = the reserves of token Y
`k` = the invariant  

[There is a highly recommended article about AMMs here](https://medium.com/gammaswap-labs/uniswap-v2-a-constant-function-market-maker-78317ea6d4ac)  

The reserves of `x` and `y` are provided by users who are not using their `x` and `y` assets at the moment. By providing liquidity they create a pool of assets in the smart contract. Other users can then swap asset `x` for `y` at the rate determined by `k = xy`. Price discovery happens over time when swaps trend in one direction. But the initial supply of liquidity to the pool determines the swap price. The liquidity providers are rewarded for providing their assets by receiving fees from the swaps. This is similar to what banks do with customer money sitting in savings accounts. They take risks (trades, swaps, investments) with it and then reward you for providing capital with interest.  

This is a primitive in DeFi.  

The design and implementation of an AMM can vary widely. The two most common are constant product AMMs and constant sum AMMs. [There is a brilliant article about AMMs here](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/s40854-021-00314-5)